in the last video we talked about
dimensionality reduction for the purpose
of compressing the data in this video
I'd like to tell you about a second
application of dimensionality reduction
and that is to visualize the data for a
lot of machine learning applications it
really helps us to develop effective
learning algorithms if we can understand
our data better if we have some way of
visualizing the data better and so the
mention ality reduction offers us often
another useful tool to do so let's sort
of an example let's say we've collected
a large data set of many statistics and
facts about different countries around
the world so maybe the first feature x1
this is the country's GDP or the gross
domestic product x2 is the per capita
meaning the per person GDP x3 human
development exponent index life
expectancy x5 expectancy then we may
have a huge data set like this with you
know maybe on 50 features for every
country and we have a huge set of
countries so is that something that we
can do to try to understand our data
better so I've given us a huge table of
numbers you know can we compete how do
you visualize this data if you have 50
features is very difficult to plot 50
dimensional data so what is a good way
to examine this data using
dimensionality reduction what we can do
is instead of having each country
represented by this feature vector X I
which is 50 dimensional so instead of
say having a country like you know
Canada instead of having 50 numbers to
represent 10 the features of Canada
let's say we can come up with a
different feature representation that is
these D vectors that is in R 2 if that's
the case if we can have just a pair of
numbers Z 1 and Z 2 that somehow
summarizes my 50 numbers maybe what we
can do is then plot these countries in R
2 and use that to try to understand
the space and different easels of
features of different countries a little
bit better and so here what we're going
to what you can do is reduce the data
from 50 D from 50 dimensions to 2 D so
you can plot this as a two-dimensional
plot and when you do that it turns out
that if you look at the output of the
dimensionality reduction algorithms it
usually doesn't ascribe a particular
meaning to diesel new feature Z 1 and Z
2 and it's often up to us to figure out
you know roughly what these features
means but if you plot what these
features here's what you might find
so here every country is represented by
a point Zi which is an r2 and so each of
those dots in this figure represents a
country and so here's z1 and here's the
z2 and highlight a couple of these so we
might find for example that the
horizontal axis the z1 axis corresponds
roughly you know to the overall country
size or the overall economic activity of
a countries of the overall GDP overall
economic size of a country whereas the
vertical axis in our data mike respond
to the per person
you know GDP or the per person
well-being or the purpose and economic
activity
and you might find that given these 50
features you know these are really the
two main dimensions of variation and so
out here you might have a country like
the USA which has a relatively large GDP
as a it was a very large GDP and a
relatively high per person GDP as well
whereas here you might have a country
like Singapore which you know actually
has a very high per person GDP as well
but because Singapore is a much smaller
country the overall you know economy
size of Singapore this is much smaller
than the US and over here
you know you would have countries where
individuals are so unfortunately someone
less well-off in addition to life
expectancy
let's healthcare that's good less
economic activity as well as smaller
countries whereas on a point like this
will correspond to a country that has a
fair it has a substantial amount of
economic activity but where individuals
you know tend to be someone less well
but so you might find that the D axis Z
1 and Z 2 can help you to most
succinctly capture really what are the
two main dimensions of variations
amongst different countries such as the
overall economic activity of the country
protected by the size of the country's
overall economy as well as the per
person individual well-being measured by
your purpose in GDP per person
healthcare and things like that
so that's how you can use dimensionality
reduction in order to reduce data from
50 inventions or whatever down to two
men dimensions or maybe down to three
dimensions so that you can plot it and
understand your data better in the next
video we'll start to develop a specific
algorithm called PCA or principal
components analysis which will allow us
to do this and also do the earlier
application I talked about of
compressing the data